SECURITY.md, before:

# Security implications for ImageVise

This lists out the implementation details of security-sensitive parts of ImageVise.

## Protection of the URLs

URLs are passed as Base64-encoded JSON. The JSON payload is signed using HMAC with SHA256. This should be
sufficient to prevent too much probing. If this is a critical issue you need to put throttling in front of the application.
For checking HMAC values `Rack::Utils.secure_compare` constant-time comparison is used.

## Cache bypass protection for randomized query string params

ImageVise forbids _any_ query string params except `sig` and `q`. This to prevent the same processing
URL from being requested repeatedly with the same params but with a different query string param appended,
like this:

* `/thm?q=xYz&sig=abc&exploit=123`
* `/thm?q=xYz&sig=abc&exploit=234`

These URLs would in fact resolve to the same source image and pipeline, but would not be stored in an upstream
CDN cache because the query string params contain extra data.

## Protection for remote URLs from HTTP(s) origins

Only URLs referring to permitted hosts are going to be permitted for fetching. If there are no host added,
any remote URL is going to cause an exception. No special verification for whether the upstream must be HTTP
or HTTPS is performed at this time.

## Protection for "file:/" URLs

The file URLs are going to be decoded, and the path component will be matched against permitted _glob patterns._
The matching takes links (hard and soft) into account, and uses Ruby's `File.fnmatch?` under the hood. The path
is always expanded first using `File.expand_path`. The data is not read into ImageMagick from the original location,
but gets copied into a tempfile first.

## ImageMagick memory constraints

ImageVise does not set RMagick limits by itself. You should
[set them according to the RMagick documentation.](https://rmagick.github.io/magick.html#limit_resource)

## Processing time constraints

If you are using forking, there will be a timeout used for how long the forked child process may run,
which is the default timeout used in ExceptionalFork.

Commit message:

Some more rumination on URL-based cache poisoning

SECURITY.md, after:

# Security implications for ImageVise

This lists out the implementation details of security-sensitive parts of ImageVise.

## Protection of the URLs

URLs are passed as Base64-encoded JSON. The JSON payload is signed using HMAC with SHA256. This should be
sufficient to prevent too much probing. If this is a critical issue you need to put throttling in front of the application.
For checking HMAC values `Rack::Utils.secure_compare` constant-time comparison is used.

## Cache bypass protection for randomized query string params

ImageVise defaults to using paths. If you have a way to forbid query strings on the fronting CDN
or proxy server we suggest you to do so, to prevent randomized URLs from filling up your cache
and extreme amounts of processing from happening.

* `/image/<pipeline>/<sig>?&random=123`
* `/image/<pipeline>/<sig>?&random=456`

These URLs would in fact resolve to the same source image and pipeline, but would not be stored in an upstream
CDN cache because the query string params contain extra data.

## Protection for remote URLs from HTTP(s) origins

Only URLs referring to permitted hosts are going to be permitted for fetching. If there are no host added,
any remote URL is going to cause an exception. No special verification for whether the upstream must be HTTP
or HTTPS is performed at this time.

## Protection for "file:/" URLs

The file URLs are going to be decoded, and the path component will be matched against permitted _glob patterns._
The matching takes links (hard and soft) into account, and uses Ruby's `File.fnmatch?` under the hood. The path
is always expanded first using `File.expand_path`. The data is not read into ImageMagick from the original location,
but gets copied into a tempfile first.

## ImageMagick memory constraints

ImageVise does not set RMagick limits by itself. You should
[set them according to the RMagick documentation.](https://rmagick.github.io/magick.html#limit_resource)

## Processing time constraints

If you are using forking, there will be a timeout used for how long the forked child process may run,
which is the default timeout used in ExceptionalFork.
